So let's talk a little bit about snapshots and EBS and RDS
and how we can copy them across regions.
And we may want to do this for any number of reasons,
but from a security standpoint,
we probably want to do this for backup or disaster recovery purposes.
This is another scenario where compliance requirements may come into play.
If you're required to keep a backup copy of your data in some area that's
geographically separated from where your application or database is hosted, or
maybe if there's some sort of AWS regional outage,
you may want to be able to quickly spin your
application back up in another region.
So the way we accomplish this is by taking frequent snapshots of our data
and then copying these snapshots to another region.
And remember these snapshots all live in S3 behind the scenes.
Now when we talk about encryption at rest,
when we have a snapshot that is unencrypted, so when we take a snapshot from
an unencrypted EBS volume or an unencrypted RDS instance,
the process of copying it gives us an opportunity to
encrypt that snapshot as part of the process.
And we've been talking about copying snapshots across
regions, but this would hold true even if we just copied
the snapshot within the same region.
So as you'll recall earlier in this course,
when we created a new EBS volume or a new RDS instance,
the only opportunity we had to enable encryption was at the time we
created the resource, but this snapshot copy process effectively
gives us an opportunity to add encryption to a resource we've
already created after the fact.
Now, obviously this won't retroactively encrypt the original resource,
so we would still need to delete that resource and restore
the encrypted snapshot to a new one.
So there is still some work involved on our part to do this,
but it is possible to add encryption at rest for EBS and RDS in this way.
Now if the snapshot is already encrypted,
the copied snapshot will always stay encrypted,
but, and again, this applies within the same region or across
regions, you will be given the opportunity to use a different KMS
key to encrypt the copy. And across regions,
you'll have to choose a different KMS key because you'll need to choose
a key that exists within the destination region. Now let's go ahead and
see how this process looks in the console.
In this demo,
we will copy snapshots of an EBS volume and an RDS instance across regions.
We will also see the options for copying snapshots
that are encrypted and unencrypted.
So let's go to the EC2 console and we'll go to snapshots where
you'll see I've already taken snapshots of two EBS volumes that I
have here in the US‑East‑1 region, and one is an encrypted snapshot
taken from an encrypted volume,
and the other one is unencrypted from an unencrypted volume.
So I'll start by selecting my encrypted snapshot and
I'll go to Actions and then Copy.
And here, I can choose a different region so I can copy this from
US‑East‑1 to US‑West‑1, and then I can choose the KMS key to use in the
destination region to encrypt the snapshot there.
And I don't have any of my own CMKs here,
but I can always use the default AWS managed key for EBS, and you'll
notice the encryption check box is checked and disabled so I can't turn
off encryption when copying an encrypted snapshot, and I'll click Copy
and that will initiate that process.
Now,
if I select my unencrypted snapshot and go to Actions and then Copy, here again,
I can choose a different destination region, but here you'll see I
have the ability to check the encryption box so I can encrypt an
unencrypted snapshot when I copy it.
And you see here in this region,
I do have a CMK, or again, if I choose a different
region where I don't have any CMKs, I can still use the default EBS key.
So I'll click copy here,
and that will encrypt this copy of the snapshot when
it's copied to the destination region.
Now quickly,
let's go to the RDS console, and again, I'll go to Snapshots and here I
haven't manually created any snapshots, but I can go to System and choose
this one here, and you'll see this is for an RDS instance where I did not
enable encryption at the time I created it.
But if I go to Actions and Copy Snapshot,
you'll see here I can choose my destination region, and again,
just like with my unencrypted EBS volumes snapshot when I copy it,
I have the option to enable encryption here, and again, to
choose a key from the destination region.
And I won't show you this separately, but if I had already
encrypted this RDS instance when I created it,
then my snapshot would be encrypted and I wouldn't have the option to
disable that encryption when copying it, but I would still need to
choose a key from the destination region.
So hopefully this helps you visualize how the snapshot copy process
works for EBS volumes and RDS instances and how you have the option to
enable encryption as part of that process, even if your snapshot is not already encrypted.